applications: Added Bluetooth LE support to Matter Bridge (#11977)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: applications/matter_bridge/README.rst

********

The application uses buttons to control the device state and a single LED to show the state of a device.
The Matter bridge has capability of representing non-Matter bridged devices as dynamic endpoints.
The application supports bridging the following Matter device types:

* On/Off Light
* Temperature Sensor
* Humidity Sensor

.. _matter_bridge_app_bridged_support:

Bridged device support
======================

The application supports two bridged device configurations that are mutually exclusive:

> * Simulated bridged device - This configuration simulates the functionality of bridged devices by generating pseudorandom measurement results and changing the light state in a fixed time intervals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Simulated bridged device - This configuration simulates the functionality of bridged devices by generating pseudorandom measurement results and changing the light state in fixed+time intervals.
```

* Bluetooth LE bridged device - This configuration allows to connect a real peripheral Bluetooth LE device to the Matter bridge and represent its functionalities using :ref:`Matter Data Model <ug_matter_overview_data_model>`.

>   The application supports the following Bluetooth LE services that are represented by corresponding Matter device types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The application supports the following Bluetooth LE services:
```

>   * Nordic Semiconductor's :ref:`LED Button Service <lbs_readme>` - represented by the Matter On/Off Light

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Nordic Semiconductor's :ref:`LED Button Service <lbs_readme>` - represented by the Matter On/Off Light device type.
```

* Temperature Sensor
* Humidity Sensor

The application supports two bridged devices configurations that are mutually exclusive and can be enabled using the following Kconfig options:

* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BRIDGED_DEVICE_SIMULATED` - simulates the functionality of bridged devices by generating pseudorandom measurement results and changing the light state in a fixed time intervals.
* :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BRIDGED_DEVICE_BLE` - allows to connect a real peripheral Bluetooth LE devices to the bridge and represent their functionalities using Matter Data Model.

The bridge supports adding and removing bridged devices dynamically at application runtime using commands from a dedicated Matter bridge shell module.

Bluetooth LE Bridged devices
============================

The application supports following Bluetooth LE services that are represented by the corresponding Matter device types:

* :ref:`Nordic Led Button Service <lbs_readme>` represented by the Matter On/Off Light

> 

Reviewer: I would rather have all of this as one section "Bridged devices", in which I would explain what the bridged devices are and what types are implemented by the sample. Then, I would move the Kconfigs to a subsection of Configuration "Enabling bridged devices".

* For adding a new bridged device to the bridge:

>    * For simulated bridged device:

Reviewer: I will rework this list into a table in a separate commit.

      .. code-block:: console

         matter_bridge add <device_type> [node_label]

      This command adds a new bridged device to the bridge.
      In this command:

      * ``<device_type>`` is a Matter device type to use for the bridged device.
      The argument is mandatory and accepts the following values:

         * ``256`` - On/Off Light.
         * ``770`` - Temperature Sensor.
         * ``775`` - Humidity Sensor.

> 

Author: The numbers are device type ids from the Matter spec, so I thought it will be better to use them instead of creating some custom numbering. And the supported device types are displayed in the command help or if argument is not provided:

> uart:~$ matter_bridge add
add: wrong parameter count
add - Adds bridged device. 
      Usage: add <bridged_device_type> [node_label]
      * bridged_device_type - the bridged device's type, e.g. 256 - OnOff Light, 770 - TemperatureSensor, 775 - HumiditySensor
      * node_label - the optional bridged device's node label

> 

Reviewer 2: Oh, right, then everything is alright :)

Matter CLI commands
===================

You can use the following commands to control the Matter bridge device:

Getting a list of Bluetooth LE devices available to be added
   Use the following command:

   .. code-block:: console

      matter_bridge scan

   The terminal output is similar to the following one:

   .. code-block:: console

      I: Scan result:
      I: -----------------------------
      I: | Index |      Address      |
      I: -----------------------------
      I: | 0     | e6:11:40:96:a0:18 |

Adding a simulated bridged device to the Matter bridge
   Use the following command:

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

>       matter_bridge add *<device_type>* *[node_label]*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      matter_bridge add *<device_type>* *["node_label"]*
```

   In this command:

   * *<device_type>* is the Matter device type to use for the bridged device.
     The argument is mandatory and accepts the following values:

      * ``256`` - On/Off Light.
      * ``770`` - Temperature Sensor.
      * ``775`` - Humidity Sensor.

>    * *[node label]* is the node label for the bridged device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * *["node label"]* is the node label for the bridged device.
```

      The argument is optional and you can use it to better personalize the device in your application.

   Example command:

   .. code-block:: console

      uart:~$ matter_bridge add 256 "Kitchen Light"

Adding a Bluetooth LE bridged device to the Matter bridge
   Use the following command:

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

      matter_bridge add *<device_type>* *<ble_device_index>* *[node_label]*

   In this command:

   * *<device_type>* is the Matter device type to use for the bridged device.
     The argument is mandatory and accepts the following values:

     * ``256`` - On/Off Light.

   * *<ble_device_index>* is the Bluetooth LE device index on the list returned by the ``scan`` command.
     The argument is mandatory and accepts only the values returned by the ``scan`` command.

>    * *[node label]* is the node label for the bridged device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * *["node label"]* is the node label for the bridged device.
```

      uart:~$ matter_bridge remove 3

* For getting a list of Bluetooth LE devices available to be added:

   .. code-block:: console

      matter_bridge scan

   You should be able to see the following output on the terminal:

      .. parsed-literal::
         :class: highlight

         I: Scan result:
         I: -----------------------------
         I: | Index |      Address      |
         I: -----------------------------
         I: | 0     | e6:11:40:96:a0:18 |

> 

Author: Ok

   See `Commissioning the device`_ for more information.
   During the commissioning process, write down the value for the bridge node ID.
   This is going to be used in the next steps (*<bridge_node_ID>*).

> Complete the next steps, depending on used bridged devices configuration.

Reviewer: We can't interrupt the testing steps like this.
```suggestion
#. Complete the next steps, depending on your bridged device configuration.
```

> Testing with simulated bridged devices

Reviewer: I suggest we use tabs for these two sections.

            See the description in :ref:`matter_bridge_cli` for the list of supported values.
            For example, if you want to add a new bridged device that will be exposed as an On/Off Light endpoint, use the following command:

            .. code-block:: console

               uart:~$ matter_bridge add 256

            The terminal output is similar to the following one:

            .. code-block:: console

               I: Adding OnOff Light bridged device
               I: Added device to dynamic endpoint 3 (index=0)

         #. Write down the value for the bridged device dynamic endpoint ID.
            This is going to be used in the next steps (*<bridged_device_endpoint_ID>*).
         #. Use the :doc:`CHIP Tool <matter:chip_tool_guide>` to read the value of an attribute from the bridged device endpoint.
            For example, read the value of the *on-off* attribute from the *onoff* cluster using the following command:

            .. parsed-literal::
               :class: highlight

               ./chip-tool onoff read on-off *<bridge_node_ID>* *<bridged_device_endpoint_ID>*

>    .. tabs::

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
Delete this line. It is duplicated with line 294.

            The *<device_type>* is a Matter device type that will be used to represent a new bridged device in the Matter Data Model.
            See the description in :ref:`matter_bridge_cli` for the list of supported values.
            The *<bluetooth_device_index>* is a Bluetooth LE device index that was scanned in the previous step.
            For example, if you want to add a new Bluetooth LE bridged device with index `0` that is exposed as an On/Off Light endpoint, use the following command:

            .. code-block:: console

               uart:~$ matter_bridge add 256 0

            The terminal output is similar to the following one:

            .. parsed-literal::
               :class: highlight

               I: Adding OnOff Light bridged device
               I: Added device to dynamic endpoint 3 (index=0)

         #. Write down the value for the bridged device dynamic endpoint ID.
            This is going to be used in the next steps (*<bridged_device_endpoint_ID>*).
         #. Use the :doc:`CHIP Tool <matter:chip_tool_guide>` to read the value of an attribute from the bridged device endpoint.

>             For example, read the value of the *on-off* attribute from the *onoff* cluster using a following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            For example, read the value of the *on-off* attribute from the *onoff* cluster using the following command:
```

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

      uart:~$ matter_bridge scan

   You should be able to see the similar output on the terminal:

      .. parsed-literal::
         :class: highlight

         I: Scan result:
         I: -----------------------------
         I: | Index |      Address      |
         I: -----------------------------
         I: | 0     | e6:11:40:96:a0:18 |

   Write down the value for the desired Bluetooth LE device index.
   This is going to be used in the next steps (*<bluetooth_device_index>*).

#. Using the terminal emulator connected to the bridge, run the following :ref:`Matter CLI command <matter_bridge_cli>` to add a new bridged device:

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

      uart:~$ matter_bridge add <device_type> <bluetooth_device_index>

   The *<device_type>* is a Matter device type that will be used to represent a new bridged device in the Matter Data Model.
   The following values are currently supported:

   * ``256`` - On/Off Light
   * ``770`` - Temperature Sensor

>    * ``775`` - Humidity Sensor

Author: No, good catch, it's copy paste error from simulated version.

   The *<bluetooth_device_index>* is a Bluetooth LE device index that was scanned in the previous step.

>    For example, if you want to add a new Bluetooth LE bridged device with index `0` that will be exposed as an On/Off Light endpoint, use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For example, if you want to add a new Bluetooth LE bridged device with index `0` that is exposed as an On/Off Light endpoint, use the following command:
```

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

      uart:~$ matter_bridge add 256 0

>    You should be able to see the following output on the terminal:

Reviewer: See the edit to line 336.
